Hey, Tim Berglund with Confluent.
This is the fundamentals of Apache Kafka
within the course called
fundamentals of Apache Kafka.
So we're really gonna get
into the fundamentals here.
(bright upbeat music)
In this module you're gonna
develop a mental model
of what Kafka is.
When we're done, you
should be able to identify
the key elements of a Kafka cluster
and have some idea of what
the basic responsibilities
of each element are.
Explain what a topic is
and how it's composed of
partitions and what segments are,
and that basic sort of
storage model of Kafka.
Topics are what you're
gonna spend a lot of time
thinking about when you're actually
building applications on Kafka,
so we want that to be pretty
solid by the time we're done.
Now, it is a fact of the
world that lots of things
happen in it.
There are many events produced
and no matter what sort
of industry you're in
like the industries,
you see pictured here,
all of those things are
producing events all the time
and Kafka's job is to manage
and process those events.
So to get data into a Kafka cluster,
we have a thing called a producer.
A producer is an
application that you write.
So that, that Kafka box there,
that's either a Kafka cluster
that you're operating,
or maybe it's a Kafka
cluster in a cloud service
where you don't know too much
about the operational details,
but you know, the services
there and it's reliable
and you know how to connect to it.
That Kafka cluster is
that thing out there,
your job is to write programs
that put data into it
and read data out of it and
do useful things with them.
So all of those sources of
events, we see connected cars,
financial transactions,
things happening in hospitals,
boxes being shipped around the world.
All of those are potential
sources of events
and some producing application
is aware of those events
and takes an action to write those events
into a Kafka cluster.
And after they get written,
the Kafka cluster says,
okay, got it, sends an acknowledgement,
and the producer moves on.
What's in a Kafka cluster?
Let's break that down a little bit.
It's made up of things called brokers.
Now, if you will just kind
of set the way back machine
for maybe 10 or 15 years ago
when computers were things that you saw
and they were in a data center
and you could maybe go
to that data center,
and it was this metal box
with blinky lights and fans,
and that sort of thing.
If you could imagine
that that helps make this
a little crisper here,
those individual servers,
those are kind of what brokers are.
Those are Kafka process
running on each one,
each one has its own
disks that's important.
Every broker has its own local storage.
Those brokers are networked together
and they act together as
a single Kafka cluster.
When producers produce,
they write into those things
that are brokers.
Now, if you're using Kafka in the cloud,
you're hopefully not gonna be thinking
about brokers too much.
If you're using a fully managed service,
there are brokers that are out
there, you know, that's true,
they've got their own local storage,
they've got some retention
time set on the data
that they're storing.
That's maybe five
minutes or maybe a month,
or maybe 100 years.
They've got some amount of time,
they're gonna keep those events around.
But in the cloud, of course
we don't think too closely about brokers.
Those are the things that's
abstracted away from us.
But it's true, and you should know this.
Every Kafka cluster is composed
of these things called brokers.
And we never quite know
how to refer to those.
Are they machines?
Are they servers?
These are all sort of old words,
they might be containers,
they might be VMs somewhere.
And I'll skip that for
the rest of this course.
I'll probably just call them machines
or servers or some kind
of legacy term like that
in as much as we're talking about brokers,
just so you kind of have
an idea what I mean.
Now that data gets
written into that cluster,
it's stored on those
discs inside those brokers
and of course, we wanna read it out,
we do that with the consumer.
And this consumer is a program you write.
That Kafka cluster, those
brokers that's infrastructure,
somebody manages that infrastructure,
operates that cluster.
Ideally, it's a managed
service in the cloud,
but what you write is the
producer and the consumer,
you put data in and you read data out.
And it's reading data that frankly
usually gets pretty interesting.
This is where a lot of the work
happens on the consume side.
What the consumer does with that data,
well, that's up to the application itself,
is generating a report,
feeding a dashboard,
is there some other
process that it's sending
that process data too?
Often, a consumer will also be a producer
and put its results into
a different place in Kafka
that transform data.
But these are the
fundamental parts of Kafka.
You have a producer, you
have the cluster itself,
you have a consumer.
And that model, those three pieces,
everything that ever gets built with Kafka
conforms to that model.
Maybe you won't see the consumer
and the producer directly.
If you're using something
like Kafka Streams,
or CASE SQL Db, which we'll
cover in a later module,
you don't think about
producing and consuming,
but they're always there.
These are the fundamental
components of Kafka.
So let's look at that
again and add a component.
We've got our producers there on the left,
that Kafka cluster in the middle,
those producing applications
are writing into the cluster
that you've got the consumers
they're reading from the cluster.
What's that thing on top?
Well, that's a ZooKeeper ensemble.
As of the time of this recording,
Kafka uses ZooKeeper to manage consensus
on a few pieces of distributed state.
There are a few things
that all of those brokers
need to agree on.
They need to have some
consensus story on what is true
and ZooKeeper is good at doing that.
Now, again, as I said, at
the time of this recording,
there's an initiative
underway called KIP 500,
that's Kafka Improvement Proposal, 500.
That itself has bonded
a number of child KIPs
and a whole bunch of work to remove
ZooKeeper from Kafka completely.
So at some point after this recording,
that will not be there anymore.
So it may be that you look at Kafka
and the current release you're using,
and maybe you see this video and say,
well, there's no ZooKeeper there.
And that means a new day has dawned.
So there's a lot of work to get that done,
and that work is ongoing.
But for now ZooKeeper's doing a great job,
being a distributed consensus
manager for the cluster.
Producers and consumers are
decoupled from one another.
So a consumer doesn't know
anything about the producer
that produced the data that it's reading.
Likewise, when you produce data,
you're not sending it to
a particular destination,
you're sending it to a structure
inside the Kafka cluster,
that's called a topic.
You're producing that data to a topic,
we'll cover those more in a moment.
But you don't know anything about
who's consuming from that topic.
And that decoupling is intentional.
That means that there's a whole category
of state information between
producer and consumer
that is simply never managed.
Producers write data in,
consumers read data out.
That also means that producers can scale.
I can add producers that
write data into a cluster
without the consumers knowing.
I can add consumers that are reading
a kind of data that has long existed.
Maybe I've got this
long history of records
of sales transactions in my cluster,
I add some new fraud detection algorithm.
Well, that's a new consumer,
none of my producers need to know.
They can fail independently,
they can evolve independently.
They're decoupled,
so they don't need to
know about each other.
Revisiting ZooKeeper for a moment,
what does it really do?
Well, authorization information,
that's access control lists,
those are stored in ZooKeeper.
The management of failure.
So when a broker fails,
there are gonna be various
pieces of a topic that that
broker is the leader for,
they're replicated in other
places in the cluster,
but the way that replication is organized
and who's in charge of each
replica and that sort of thing
that is managed by ZooKeepers.
So when a broker dies and
the cluster has to decide
who gets responsibility for
the data it was managing,
ZooKeeper participates in the election
of new leaders for those things.
So it's basically what it does.
Little bits of metadata,
fail over leader election,
access control lists,
that stuff is all currently in ZooKeeper.
I've used this word a few times topics.
Now I wanna really give you a definition
of what a topic is.
A topic is a collection
of related messages
or related events.
You can think of a topic as a log,
as a sequence of events.
Now, there are some exceptions to that,
I'm gonna unfold some concepts here
that help you manage those exceptions.
But for right now, just think
of it as a sequence of events.
So topic is this list of things
and when a producer writes a new one,
it just puts it on the end and
the previous ones are kept.
I can have any number of
producers writing to a topic,
I can have a producer
writing to multiple topics.
Likewise, many consumers
can consume from a topic.
All of those relationships
are end to end-to-end.
There isn't a theoretical
limit on the number of topics.
There's a practical limit
on the number of what
are called partitions,
we'll get to partitions in a moment.
But topics by themselves, it's
not like you can only have 50
and then you need to add
nodes or anything like that,
you can really have conceptually
as many as you'd like.
And I did say partition, didn't I?
So I better tell you what that means.
Now here's a cluster over on the left,
it's got a number of topics in it,
let's zoom in on topic C.
Now that topic is a log
and it's a durable log, it's persistent,
which means what it's gonna
be stored on disc somewhere.
And the broker that
that partition lives on,
well, that's just a computer
at the end of the day.
And if you're writing
messages into that topic
and reading messages from
that topic that's work,
IO and computational work that
that computer has to do.
None of these things scales forever.
You can't have storage scaling forever,
and you can't have that pub/sub activity
on that broker scaling forever.
So you might want to break
your topic up into pieces.
We call those pieces partitions
and then be able to
allocate those partitions
to different brokers in the cluster.
This is key to how Kafka scales.
I can take a topic, partition it
and allocate each partition
to a separate broker.
So when I set a topic was a log
and I kind of put a
little asterisk on that,
and there's an exception
to really what that means.
Formally speaking a partition is a log.
So every partition has strict ordering,
when I produced to a partition,
I put the message on the
end of the partition,
that's the only place I can
put it because it's a log.
I can't disturb any of
the previous messages,
they're all immutable events,
I just put things on the end.
And so that is a log and
the events in that log
that partition are strictly ordered.
A topic having been
broken into partitions.
You may not have strict ordering
over all of the events in the topic,
so you've always got
ordering within a partition.
And if you wanna look at
an implementation detail,
really drill down into what a partition is
on an individual broker,
that log file is gonna be represented
by multiple logs.
Segments, those are individual
files on disc on that broker,
it's really a set of a few files,
and some indexes and things like that.
So that segment is a
thing that exists on disc
on the Kafka broker, and each
partition can be broken up
into multiple segments.
Usually, unless you're deeply involved
in hands-on administration
of a Kafka cluster,
you're not gonna think
about segments so much,
but you do have to
think about partitioning
as you think about how
to model data in topics.
It's very important.
Let's look at that again in color.
If you can see those
colors, topic a is green,
topic b is, it's kind
of a mustardy orange,
and I wanna call c sort
of a cornflower blue.
And you're wanting to
correct me in the comments,
if you think any of those
color names are wrong.
But this cluster now has four brokers,
we're calling them 101, 102, 103, 104
and you can see how the
partitions of each topic
are broken up.
So topic a, has partition
zero, one and two.
You see partition, zero is on broker 101,
partition one is on partition 102,
partition two is on broker 104
and none of topic a is on broker 103.
I won't go through all of those,
but you can kind of pause
the video if you'd like,
and look through that diagram
and see how those
partitions are distributed.
The cluster does that automatically,
when a topic is created by the way,
it makes decisions about
where those partitions
are gonna live.
What a Kafka cluster doesn't do
is keep track of the
size of those partitions
and move them around,
if one broker gets overloaded,
as topics get created and destroyed,
loading of course does not stay constant.
So this is functionality
you'd have to add yourself
to keep those things balanced.
There are parts of Confluent platform
that will help you do
that, make that automatic.
And of course, if you're
using a managed Kafka service,
sort of thing, is the thing
that you know vaguely,
there is a team of highly
skilled software developers
and site reliability
engineers who are making sure
this kind of stuff works for you
and you don't have to worry about it.
You see over there on the right there,
the log files, each
partition again is broken up
into individual segments on disc,
on the broker as a really drill
down implementation detail
into what's going on on the broker.
Let me just refresh exactly
what I mean by a log.
This is important, you
probably know this, right?
You've probably written to
a log file at some point,
or at least read one.
And you kinda know instinctively,
even if you've never thought about it,
the semantics of a log.
So when you write something to
a log file, where does it go?
It goes on the end, it
has to go on the end.
It doesn't go at the beginning,
that's already happened.
That sequence of things
has already happened.
You can only add new things to the log
because the rest is representation
of what has happened in time, up till now.
Also all of those ordered
entries prior to now,
those are immutable.
If you're editing one of
those or deleting one of them,
there's almost something
like ethically suspect
about editing a log, like,
what are you trying to hide?
You know, you conspiring
in a crime or something?
So logs are immutable records of things.
And the semantics are when
you wanna write to a log,
you put it on the end and that's it,
and those are immutable after that.
You may choose to expire
things past a certain age,
and that's certainly the case in Kafka,
you can set a retention period on a topic.
But this is what a log is,
this is this fundamental data structure
that Kafka is based on.
Those numbers you see there,
the zero one, two, three, four, like that,
those are real in Kafka.
They actually start at zero
and they just monotonically
increase like that forever.
And there are many, many bits of them,
so you're not gonna run out,
but every partition has its
own unique offset space,
so that's a real thing.
And you can actually find that out,
when you produce a message,
when you consume a message.
The API, you can poke into
things and will tell you,
oh, this will ended up
being offset such and such,
or this was offset such and such.
Usually don't need to know,
but, and it's a real thing,
and it's there inside of each partition.
An important fact about consumers,
those blue boxes on the bottom
that are apparently reading messages,
consuming, doesn't consume,
it doesn't destroy the
message, it just reads it.
So you can have multiple consumers
on one log or one topic in Kafka,
and they can be at their
own independent offsets.
Now, of course, you'd like them
all to be caught up, right?
Everybody wants to be kind
of close to the events
that are being produced,
so this processing could
be called real time.
But they don't need to be,
in terms of the way the system works,
one can start at the beginning
and take days to catch up,
if you need to do that.
They're independent consumers
that are working from independent offsets.
Later on you'll hear me
refer to this as a stream,
this log or topic I'll say stream.
And these things in the stream are events,
and the current time is where
I'm producing right now,
that's the present and the stream
extends back into the past.
So different word means
exactly the same thing.
What's the structure of a Kafka message?
Well, the things that you are
gonna think about the most
are the key and the value,
that's your Kafka data model.
Every event is a key value pair.
Now, very likely there's
gonna be some structure
in the value, right?
That's probably some sort of domain object
that you're gonna serialize
somehow and store there.
There may be structure in the key.
Often the key is a string or
integer or something like that.
But sometimes people have a compound
and complex domain objects
that they serialize
and use as the key,
that's completely allowed.
Every message has a timestamp.
If you don't have a timestamp,
one will be provided for you.
So you'll get the wall clock time
at the time that you produce the message.
That's if you don't really
care too much about the time.
But if in your value,
in that domain object,
if it knows the time it took place,
well then in the API, when
you're producing, you can say,
hey, you know, the actual time is this.
I don't care what time it is right now,
this is the time of the message.
You can set that explicitly.
You also have an optional set of headers.
Think of them like HTTP headers,
which are themselves kind
of string key value pairs.
So you don't wanna use
this as additional payload,
but this really is metadata.
So these are properties of the data
that you're gonna be able to see on read.
So consumers have access to these
and can make decisions based on them.
But that's it, you have key
value, timestamp and headers.
Let's dive into brokers a little bit.
I've introduced them,
but I wanna go over their
key responsibilities.
Their basic function is
to manage partitions.
Now, as a developer using Kafka,
you're thinking about topics all the time.
You're creating a topic,
you're thinking about
the schema of a topic.
What kind of messages does it have?
What's its retention period?
What are its compaction properties?
All these great things that
you'll learn about topics
as you move forward.
If you're a broker,
you know what a topic is, but
really you've got partitions.
You're managing some set
of partitions locally.
That's what a broker does.
It manages those log files,
it takes inputs from producers,
updates those partitions,
takes requests from consumers
and writes them out.
That's what a broker does.
It's does storage and pub/sub.
So those partitions are stored
locally on the broker's disc,
and there can be many of them,
many partitions on each individual broker.
So you see this core architecture diagram
again, you've got producers.
Those are applications that
are writing to the cluster,
brokers that are taking those rights
and managing their partitions
and consumers that are
reading from those partitions.
The way consumers read from partitions
actually gets pretty interesting,
we'll take a look at that later.
It would be a bummer
if each partition only
existed on one broker,
such that if that broker
died, the partition would die.
You would not want that to be the case.
And of course, Kafka does replicate.
Each partition has a
configurable number of replicas,
three is typical, that's
called the replication factor.
One of those replicas is called the leader
and the others are called the follower.
So when I produce to a partition,
I'm actually producing to the leader.
The producer is connecting to the broker
that has the lead partition there.
And it's the job of the brokers
with follower partitions,
to reach out to those leaders
and kind of scrape the new
messages that they've got
and keep up-to-date with
them as quickly as possible.
So and that all happens
in a very timely fashion
inside of a properly
operating Kafka cluster.
It's not like they take seconds
for that replication to take place,
but there is a leader,
follower distinction here,
which makes consistency a
lot easier to think about.
Thinking a little more about
producers, which know now
are these client applications,
you might be asking, what
language can I write those in?
Well, Java was always the
native language of Apache Kafka.
The language library that ships with Kafka
is a Java library.
Now the other adjacent languages,
of the JVM like Kotlin
and Closure and Groovy,
and even Scala,
there are always wrappers for those
that make the Java library look idiomatic
in those languages.
But there are other
supported languages as well,
C, C++, Python, Go, .Net.
Those libraries are supported
by Confluent platform.
So if you need like a
proper supported version
of one of those, you can get that.
Those are all based on
a C language library
called librdkafka.
That's an open source
library that duplicates
a lot of the functionality
of the Java library
and many other non JVM language libraries
draw on that for their Kafka support.
There are many more than that
supported by the Kafka community,
if you're wondering where node support is
and where's Ruby and all?
Well, believe me, they are there.
In fact, there are often multiple choices
for each one of them.
There's also a REST Proxy that
we'll cover in another module
that lets you access Kafka.
If somehow you're using a language
that doesn't have library support,
or if you just don't want to use
that native language support,
you can use the REST Proxy.
And of course there is a Command
Line Producer Tool as well.
That's good for tests
and scripts and sending
kind of small amounts of
string data into topics.
Now I said, when a
producer writes to a topic
it's actually writing to a partition
and these partitions are
stored on separate brokers.
And so how does a producer know
which partition to write a message to?
There are a couple answers to that.
Now, if the message has no key,
the producer will just
have a round-robin method
that it applies.
And it'll say partition
zero, partition one,
partition two, partition three.
And there are some exceptions
and interesting ways to configure that,
but that's basically what's gonna happen,
you're gonna load
bouncing round-robin way.
Partitions always stay even in that case,
but you don't have a
lot of ordering there.
Now, if the order of
events is important to you,
you have the opportunity
to order them by key.
So if there is a key, then
what the producer's gonna do
is hash that key, mode
the number of partitions
that gives you the partition
number it's gonna write it to.
So the same key is
always gonna get written
to the same partition, as long
as the number of partitions
is held constant in the topic,
which probably should be in most cases.
So messages with the same
key land in same partition,
which means they are strictly
ordered all the time.
And that's an important thing.
Cause you might have a key,
say you've got an internet
of things application,
you've got smart thermostats
all over the planet,
tens of millions of them
and they're all phoning home
with temperature and humidity
and every other kind of
metadata every minute,
and you want those to be ordered.
You wanna be able to
process those in order.
Well, if you make the key, the device ID,
well then each devices messages
are gonna show up in order in a partition.
So messages of the same
key, always land in order,
it's possible to override all this
and write a custom
partitioner, if you'd like to,
it doesn't end up happening very often,
but it absolutely is available
to you if you need it.
Consumers again are the
programs that you write
that are reading from topics.
All the same language options as producers
and what they do, they pull.
They actually will go
out, that consumer program
will go and ask the Kafka cluster.
It will say, "Hey, I am
subscribed to this one topic,
"and this is the last offset I read."
Remember those numeric offsets.
"Do you have any messages
after that offset?"
And if the answer is no, then it returns
and the consumer can come back and ask
a very short period of time later.
Usually of course the answer is yes,
and here are more messages
and it gets the messages
and moves on.
That consumer offset, the
consumer is storing that in memory
that's state, right?
We don't want that only to be in memory.
So the offset of each
consumer into each partition,
that that consumer is responsible for
is stored in a special topic
inside the Kafka cluster
named mysteriously
enough, consumer offsets.
So if you see that consumer offset topic,
that's what it's doing.
That's helping your consumers
remember where they are.
So if they go away and come back,
the cluster can help them remember
where they need to pick up again.
And just like the producer,
there is a Command Line Tool
to read from a cluster,
which could be great
for quick visibility into things
and scripting and so forth.
Usually not a lot of production code
gets written with the CLI tools,
but they do come in quite handy.
As I've said, each topic
can have multiple consumers
and by multiple consumers,
I mean multiple different applications
that are reading that same data.
So there's separate code
bases, separate images,
separate builds, separate deployments
could be managed by separate teams.
Maybe the people don't
even know each other,
as long as they've got the
right to access the data,
they can deploy consumers
against that topic.
Consumers also live in groups.
Now that one of the top
doesn't look like a group
that's kind of the
degenerate group of one,
but every consumer is a
consumer group in Kafka.
Meaning I can add additional
instances of a consumer,
like you see at the bottom,
there are three instances of
that consuming application.
So imagine that's an uber-JAR
and you've built a Docker image around it
and Kubernetes is now
deploying three of it,
instead of only one of it,
that's the way that you
scale out consumers.
We'll talk about the details
of that a little bit more
in a future module.
Let's come back to the
same architecture diagram
that describes every Kafka
system you're ever gonna build.
You've got producers that
write data into the cluster,
you've got that cluster,
you know a little bit more
about partitions and replication
and things like that now.
And then you've got consumers,
those programs that read data out,
every system you're ever gonna build
conforms to this diagram.
And with that, you should have
a pretty solid mental model
of how Kafka works, a
little bit about producers,
consumers, brokers, ZooKeeper,
partitioning, replication,
all of these things put
you on a solid footing
to explore what next.
(bright upbeat music)